>> Brian Holt: So transitions, these next
three, they're actually somewhat similar,
just kind of in goals, but they all
have to do with perceived performance
that we're actually not going to
make React more faster, right?
We're gonna make it so that the user
feels more performance, right?
So let's hop into transitions.
This particular problem
here happens to me a lot.
How many of you have buttons on your
remotes that have Netflix or Hulu or
Uncle Pete's Streaming Services,
I called it here, and
you go to press a button and you
accidentally press the wrong one, right?
And you spend the worst 15 seconds of your
life, waiting for this app to load so
that you can close it and get to
the actual thing that you meant to, right?
And just panicking, pressing the button,
unwilling to waste 15
more seconds on this.
This particular problem where you click
something, the UI does something and
you're locked into a state
until it finishes loading
is exactly what transitions are for.
It's essentially like,
I'm gonna just start doing something
larger underneath the scene.
A good example of this is changing pages.
But I'm still going to
leave the UI reactive so
that the user can change their mind or
do something else, right?
That's the entire purpose of transitions,
keep your UI responsive while you're
doing something larger under the hood.
Yeah, so same thing, you've been on
a website, maybe your banking website,
my banking website does this where, I'll
click on send a transfer or something like
that, and I accidentally click get
a new mortgage or something like that.
And I'm like, no, I don't need
another mortgage, I have a house,
thank you very much.
So yeah,
we're trying to annoy our users less.
So this is what transitions are for,
they keep you eyes interactive
while loading is happening.
So we're gonna build a little app.
I've made an intentionally slow
APIs to kind of exaggerate this.
And then we're gonna be using this
really fun useTransition hook, and
it makes the whole thing
not terribly hard to do.
So we're gonna open this project here,
and I have the starter, and
we're gonna be opening transitions, right?
So I'm gonna open that in my
VS Code editor, transitions.
So another very
similar-looking project here,
this is gonna be a scoreboard app, so
we're gonna be able to look at the various
different scores for different teams.
So I have a server.js here,
really all it's doing is it's keeping
track of seven different games.
So home and away for each one of them and
then some interval, right?
So every 10 to 60 seconds,
it's going to increment a score for
each players or for each team.
>> Brian Holt: And then this WAIT_TIME
here, so you can mess with these,
feel free to change these numbers if
you wanna make it feel different.
Every API request is artificially
slowed down by five seconds so
that you can have time to see
the transitions happening.
So just to get this running to
show you what it looks like,
if you go into transitions and you just
say npm run, I think it's dev:server,
something like that,
you'll get something that looks like this.
And you can see here,
they all start out at 1, 1, and
then over time,
they'll start changing scores.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
you can just leave that running,
there's no harm in just
leaving that running.
We'll eventually come over here as well.
I can just create another terminal, and
I'm gonna say npm run dev:client and
this will run vite.
No, you have to do npm install as well.
Make sure you do that, and
then run npm run dev:client.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
now I can open this ,and you can
see it just says transitions.
So we need to go actually
code up our app here.
Other pieces of code in here that might be
interesting to you, this is all the teams.
This is just used by server.js, but
feel free to modify them
if you're feeling funny.
This is a very normal Vite config,
it's doing a proxy so
that we can make a request
through port 3000.
And there's a bunch of images here that
were definitely generated by ChatGPT.
Okay, Client, this is literally
the same as the last one, and
then App.jsx, that is what we see there.
And then, obviously, there's
a style.css which has all the styles.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
that's the starter template.
You've run npm install,
we've run both dev:server and dev:client.
And everything else is pretty
standard React project.
So there is one API endpoint.
In fact, we can even just
look at it if you want to.
localhost:5173/score, and
then you just say game= some
number between 1 and 7.
And we should get back a response.
And notice that it takes a while,
that's from the artificial slowdown.
And it'll give you the score for
the Memory Leaks versus
the Garbage Collectors.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
we'll be using this API.